<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
	xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
	<head>
		<link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
		<title>preface</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div>
			<div id="header" class="chapter">
				<h1 id="preface">Preface</h1>
			</div>
			<p><span class="dropcap"> W</span>riting an ebook by coding (and by avoiding the use of
				a third party conversion software) can be cumbersome if one is new to HTML, XML,
				MathML, etc. After patiently holding on to my <em>do-it-yourself</em> courage, I
				succeeded in writing six e-books by mere coding (in both ePub 2 and ePub 3 formats).
				Thereafter, I considered it was a good idea to write this template which will speed
				up the writing process of any author in re-flowable ePub 3 format.</p>
			<p>The major objective is to distribute the template without DRM (Digital Right
				Management) so that interested writers can easily download and re-use the eBook. To
				assist the the author or writer to easily utilize the template, it is made up of the
				following 10 <em>XHTML</em> files (in addition to the three basic files&#8212;
				'mymetype', 'toc.ncx', 'container.xml' and content.opf): </p>

			<ol>
				<li>Cover page&#8212; (<i>front-cover.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Title page&#8212; (<i>titlepage.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Content Summary&#8212; (<i>content_summary.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Navigation&#8212; (<i>toc.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Preface&#8212; (<i>preface.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Imprint&#8212; (<i>imprint.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Chapter I&#8212; (<i>chapter1.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Chapter II&#8212; (<i>chapter2.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Chapter III&#8212; (<i>chapter3.xhtml</i>)</li>
				<li>Chapter IV&#8212; (<i>chapter4.xhtml</i>)</li>
			</ol>
			<p>After unzipping the ePub, you will obviously see these XHTML files. "Lorem ipsum" is
				used as text in most of the paragraphs which is meant to reflect the book as a
				template. The writer can duplicate any of the XHTML files, rename them for the sake
				of additional chapters, references, etc. The trick is that the <i>opf</i>,
					<i>ncx</i> and the <i>toc</i> files must be updated accordingly. </p>
			<p>The key is simple (see the example below): After opening each XHTML file on a text
				editor, replace the headers and/or titles with your own title headings. Remove
				headings you do not require and add extra headings as desired. Perhaps, an author
				prefers to use the term <em>Introduction</em> instead of <em>Preface</em>. You may
				change this name in the preface.xhtml file while still retaining the file name as
					<i>preface.xhtml</i> file. </p>
			<p>Another crucial step is that when you change a header, the &#8216;id&#8217; must be
				changed as well. If you want the 'id' to be consistent with the header. This means
				you change the 'id' in both the content document and the navigation document
					(<i>toc.xhtml</i>)</p>
			<h3 id="jason">Mr Jason Example</h3>
			<div class="chapter">
				<p>Mr. Jason has already altered the opf file by inserting the book title (Fitness
					Basics), the ISBN, the publishing date, the book description, etc. He is now
					focusing on the first paragraph of the first chapter of his book, 'Fitness
					Basics' written in Microsoft Word, which should contain a 15-second video at the
					end of the first paragraph. He does the following to the template:</p>
				<ol>
					<li>Changes the first chapter title and replaces the paragraph text (Lorem
						Ipsum&#8230;) with the corresponding paragraph text</li>
					<li>Changes the heading 'This is a video title' to 'Your First Exercise'</li>
					<li>Uploads the desired video file to the 'video' folder and use the actual
						video file name within the video tag elements</li>
					<li>Goes to the 'content.opf' text to change the video file name as well as the
						'id'</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
			<p>Chapter I includes the video and audio tags. Chapter II includes a mathematical
				equation using MathML and Chapter III includes the ePub 3 versatile Figure element.
				Finally, Chapter IV is an empty chapter that can be used by the author. Chapters can
				be added or deleted provided changes are made in all the relevant files&#8212; the
				opf file, the toc file, e.t.c. The CSS (stylesheet) used here is by all means not
				the ultimate choice for every writer. It can be modified. The author can make any
				changes as desired.</p>
			<h3 id="caution"><u>The Caution Term</u></h3>
			<p><i>Subtiles termed <b>Caution</b> are added within two of the four chapters and can be easily
					deleted by the author when the ePub is cracked-open. It is meant to point out
					some extra specifics to assist the author. As an example, it is noted in the
					video embedding section (Chapter1) that two different taggings were used for
					this publication. - one ePub file with M4V video format channelled to Apple
					iBooks and another with an MP4 file commonly used on several e-readers and as a
					requirement by distributors and retailers. The later can be easily uploaded to
					channels like Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP). Audio must be encoded using M4A
					file format for a target towards Apple iBooks store while the popular MP3 suits
					many other e-readers</i>.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
